Hi. I want to show you
a little bit about
the Jupyter Notebook
System that we've
built with Coursera
into this course.
It's a great feature.
It lets you explore
your assignments and
your programming,
the lecture content even,
all within the web browser.
I think it's really
quite a wonderful addition
to the degree,
to our platform, and
to your experience.
So let's take a look.
So this is what the
Jupyter Notebook will look
like when you log
into it on Coursera.
And at anytime, you can get back to
this screen by clicking
on Coursera logo.
And this is called the tree or the
directory tree and you can
see here it's at slash,
which means we're
at the root of it.
In this one, I've got
three folders created and I've
actually got a text file
here, Readme markdown file.
Now, if you want to create
a new Jupyter Notebook,
you just go over
to the new button,
click the little down
disclosure triangle
and you can create a folder,
text file, a terminal,
we'll talk about that,
or a new Python three notebook.
So let's go ahead and create
a python three notebook.
So this is the core of
the Jupyter system,
the Python three notebook.
This single line here
is called a cell.
You can have two kinds of cells.
You can have code cells
and markdowns cells.
So let's just say x equals five,
print x, just something simple.
So we can just write
our Python in here.
And then you can run this cell by
hitting the button up here.
And you can see we get the output
right below the cell.
You can move cells around so
we can move them up or down.
You can delete, cut, copy,
and paste, and so forth cells.
So it's really handy.
What's happening underneath
is actually all of
the code that your writing
is being sent to
a virtual server that Coursera
hosts and it's being run
against a Python
interpreter there.
Now, after you run a statement,
it's not like just finished
running a program,
that interpreter still exists,
and so the state still exists.
So if we've printed, for
instance, X plus one,
that interpreter still knows
what the value of x was.
So now we have six.
Up here in the upper
right-hand corner,
you'll actually see a reference
to your Python interpreter state.
It tells you here that
the Kernel is idle.
Um, let's try something else for
I in range, 0 and 1,000.
i equals. Well, we won't do
that. We'll just say M
equals I times I,
minus one and we'll
just run this.
Now, watch that little circle
in the upper right
as we run this.
You see it very
quickly, flashed black.
That shows you that
the interpreter is working.
So if you're looking at
your system wondering why
nothing is responding,
take a look at
that interpreter working.
In fact, why don't we do
something really nasty here.
So why don't we just say, for I,
less than 100, I equals one.
We'll just say I
equal to one right
above that and we'll
run this cell.
This a great example of
some syntax error that
comes up right here.
All right. So this is
an infinite loop, right?
We can see here that the
asterisk here, by the output,
actually tells us
that the kernel is
running and we can see here
the little black circle
is filled in,
showing that
the kernel is running.
If you get into
this kind of state,
you can just interrupt
that kernel.
It's like hitting Control C
on the keyboards.
You just say kernel,
interrupt and it'll will
just stop at anytime.
Other things you can do,
you can restart the kernel.
It's just like restarting Python.
So actually, if we restart
the kernel and then
we try and print x,
we see that we get an error.
You can clear the output,
you can restart and
run all, and so forth.
There's lots of cell functions
that you can do too.
I'll often use this one
cell Run All Above.
So I'll restart the kernel
and then I want to run all
of the content of my notebook
up until this point.
If you want to switch
to a cell to markdown,
you can do that and then this is
just regular text
with a few extras.
So if you wanted a big heading
and then you can do things
like special text to bold it.
And then when you run that cell,
it'll actually render
what the text looks like.
And you'll see that in the notebooks
throughout this course.
Let's go back to the tree.
In the tree, one of
the other things
you can do is actually
open up a terminal and
this is pretty powerful.
So you now have a terminal,
you're logged in
as the user Jovian
and this is just a Linux
machine underneath.
It's actually a
virtualized Linux machine,
a dockerized one.
So you can do things
like LS to take
a list of the files system.
You can do things like look.
What is this Untitled Notebook?
So if we wanted to look at that,
cat Untitled and we can look
Oh it's just a giant JSON
string and so-forth.
We can install new packages
as well as needed.
So you can use Conda or Pip
to install new packages.
Now, you probably won't have
to use the terminal much,
certainly not in
this first course,
but you should know
it's there and be
aware of its functionality.
So go back to the tree.
The last thing that I
wanted to show you in
just this quick overview
of the notebook,
is what an assignment
might look like.
So if you load
this assignment here,
so this is just a
sample assignment,
you'll see that there's actually
a rendered blue button here that
actually submits it to
Coursera when you press it.
So that's how you'll submit to
the programming portion
of the assignments.
Now, we built into
the assignments
some unit tests to help you.
So as you're doing an assignment,
you can hit the validate button
and it'll actually run
some of those unit tests for
you and give you
an idea that wait,
there's a couple of cells
here that needs some work.
Of course, when you go in
and submit the assignment,
you're also given this URL to
go back and to look at
the status of the assignment.
So that's a really quick overview
of the Jupyter Notebooks System.
Now, there's a lot of
shortcuts key commands.
There's plugins that you
can get for Jupyter.
You can absolutely install
Jupyter on your home PC,
or work PC, or wherever you're
doing this course from.
But I think using it in
this capacity built into
the course is really powerful.
The folder, the storage for
your Jupyter Docker instance
is on a course-by-course level.
But you can download those
files just from that tree.
So there's an option
to download files
and move them around to
other courses as well.
I hope you enjoy
this added feature of
the course in
the Coursera product
and look forward to
hearing from you,
what you think of it.